>> Student: Any recommendations for
getting a mentor?
>> Jerome Hardaway: All right, cool,
I actually have database on this.
First things first,
if you're an aspiring software engineer,
you don't go past two years
of experience for yourself.
Matter of fact, just as a software
engineer, period, you don't go
past two years of whoever you're trying
to find as a mentor because one,
when you go past two years, that
person is focused on learning as well.
So it is either you're pulling them
back to focus on the skill set that
they've already proven to, or
they had to move forward and
try to teach you things that you
might not be ready for, right?
So one of the things
that we do at Vetsu Code,
you have to have a year of production
experience to be a mentor, but you cannot
have more than two years of experience for
an aspiring software engineer.
That's just what we've seen.
So that's the first step.
I would say when it comes to
finding a mentor or you don't have
something in place for a system to
do that, start with work, right?
Start with asking feedback on your
projects, on your products, and
then as people start giving you feedback,
they kinda start falling into that
mentorship role anyway, especially
in local communities formalities.
I've always found it weird
when people just come up and
asked me to be their mentor.
We don't even know each other.
You wanna build that rapport
first cuz you might not know me,
I tell people that I'm a very hard mentor,
I'm very skill based.
I'm very, I will make you go and
do something again.
I am all in your issues and I'm asking,
I'm adding more issues to your work.
I am like straight up,
I am your worst nightmare as a mentor.
I'm not the type that's like,
hey, good job.
I'm like, hey, no, you got to fix this,
fix that, fix this, fix some more of this.
I am gonna make.
I'm gonna make you have
professional grade work already.
So you have to be like, are you willing
to deal with someone that when you ask
them to review your personal
project piddly thing and
kick it back with five,
six things that they want fixed, right?
No one's even gonna see this, I'm like,
I don't care Here, I saw it, right?
So you have to know that about that person
before you like, hey, be my mentor.
You have to focus on building those
long-term relationships before you get to
the, hey, will you formally pour into me?
Will we have this meeting time?
Things like that.
That is like my recommendation.
You also,
you have to be prepared to hear no, right?
Cuz some people,
they might not have the bandwidth, but
also, like I said,
if you're doing it the right way,
that mentorship thing kind of
happens organically, right?
And that's what you really
want on mentorship.
You really don't want,
it's not like a knight and
squire thing that people
keep trying to make it.
It's like, I'm not gonna follow me for
seven years and
then one day become a knight yourself.
I'm pouring into you in a or
we're gonna be somewhat systematic but
it's also gonna be organic.
I wanna see you win because seeing
you win means I win as well
because I am emotionally invested
in your victories, right?
That is what you want it to turn into,
right?
You want, hey, I just did this big thing.
You're like, what, really, you did?
Let me go tell three other
people the thing you did, right?
That you don't even know and
then introduce them to you.
That's how you want your
mentorship to turn into, right?
You don't even want, you want to get to
the point where you're not even asking.
You're just, stuff is just happening.
Happening for you.
All right?
And that's why you wanna do
it in an organic, showing,
you wanna add value to
the relationship type way, all right?
So, I guess that's a long way of me
answering that question of how to find
a mentor, I don't believe it's a one size,
meets fits all.
But I do think, that when you start
with the things you build, and
then you go from there,
it makes it easier.